# Why build an app

Problems I have at work:

- Everything is everywhere. Keeping all my files and links and emails and messages and *everything* sane and organized is a job of its own, and I don't have time for it
- Most search boxes suck. They never return the results I expect
- It's so hard to keep people on the same page. I waste a lot of time getting and giving updates because there's no other way of knowing what's going on
- I have more to do than could ever be done, and I'm not always sure I'm being effective
- I don't trust any of the solutions I can find for these problems because solving them requires me to hand _a lot_ of my personal info over to surveillance capitalists. (And most of the people I work for wouldn't allow me to store their data on someone else's servers.)

I want to be able to keep track of everything I need to get done in one place. If I'm looking at something and it's relevant to what I'm working on, I want to be able to link them together. I want a search box at my finger tips that is amazing at finding what I'm looking for. I want the app to fit seamlessly into all my devices.

I think a graph database can make all that stuff work. I think that if I can make it really easy to add and link stuff together that I'll be able to do some really cool things with search. I have this vague idea of bringing pull requests to content editing that might be really cool. If I can nail search and the graph data, I'm confident that I can do some rad stuff with LLMs.

I think I can preserve privacy (and eventually enable some really cool collaboration) by trying to build it as a [local-first app](https://www.inkandswitch.com/local-first/). (Technology limitations are going to force some compromises.)

Aspen is a working name... something to let me get started. Aspens are actually a network of trees that grow from a single root system. I like that, its seems apt.

